## Interview preparation

I found LLMs to be invaluable for the interview process. My process was to take the job description and any notes I took from the recruiters about the interview process and ask the LLM (Sonnet 4.5 or GPT 5.2 in my case) to generate 6-12 questions I might be asked in the interview. I would answer each question in one of two ways: either writing out an answer, or speaking my answers and using ChatGPT's dictation feature for speech to text.

I'd then pass the answer to the LLM and ask it to critique the answer. Without any more detail in the prompt, it would give me a list of strengths, weaknesses, improved answers suggestions and a grade on a ten point scale. I then rewrote my answers based on the feedback and kept all question-answer pairs in a document to study like a script. 

I have the memory of a goldfish. I struggle to remember the details of projects I did even just a year ago because I'm juggling twenty tasks at any given time. So one huge advantage of this preparation was getting to craft an accurate and detailed answer to a prompt like "Walk through the details of an end-to-end project you architected and justify why you made each choice you did." Answering this outside of a real interview scenario meant I could bring up the code repository, have the dependencies jog my memory and formulate a solid response. This was also helpful for more behavioral questions, such as, "Describe a time when someone you worked with had dramatically different viewpoints than you." You'll probably find as I did that some examples are better or more appropriate than others. There were also example questions that did not apply to my experience, like "What’s your experience with Terraform or infrastructure as code?" The LLM guided me to formulate a professional response.

The interview format du jour is the STAR or SAR method: Situation - (Task) - Action - Result. They want to hear quantified metrics if you have them. This is another situation where having time to look through documents and records to formulate the answer ahead of the interview was extremely helpful.

As I say, recall is hard for me, especially under the pressure of an interview. The job coach I was working with had a brilliant suggestion which worked for me in a couple of instances where studying my scripts wasn't enough. She suggested a spreadsheet with a column for each STAR item, with each row having some key bullets from the original answer. I learned that many interviewees are using an AI-powered app that listens to the interviewer during the interview and generates answers for the interviewee to read. Fearing I might be suspected of this, I simply shared my screen, so the interviewer could see I was looking at something that I had created. I don't believe this detracted from the interview in any way.

If I had to give a number, I'd say 85% of the questions the LLM generated appeared in some form in the ~12 interviews I sat in. It's possible interviewers are using LLMs to generate the questions, but also I think there's only so many general questions pertaining to a position that one can ask. None of the questions I was asked were word for word what the LLM came up with, but still, having written/spoken about it in practice helped my fluency and recall in the real interview.

